- [Instructor] Within JAX-RS there is a fluent client API
that we can use to make calls against a restful API.
Now, in this lesson, we're going to take a look at how
to do that, but first, let's look at it from a high level.
In the last lesson, we were building out
our rest API implementation.
So we were the providers of the rest API.
When we use the client, we're looking at it
from a consumer of the API, so we're an individual
that is interested in making a call to that API
to maybe get some data or to perform some operation.
Now, one thing I'm going to point out before we move ahead
is that on our resource that we created last time,
I've gone ahead and added some data persistence,
in order to kind of support our work and provide state
within our rest API.
So you'll notice that, like for example,
for this create method, I've gone ahead
and persisted the inventory item
that is passed into this method.
And you'll see that occur throughout the API.
I basically just filled out the implementation,
it's all JPA and we've seen that in the previous lessons.
Now let's kind of hone in on this create method.
You'll notice that it is mapped to an HTTP post,
and then it expects an inventory item to be passed in.
That's going to be JSON.
And that's going to create new inventory item resource
by invoking this method on our API.
Now let's go ahead and look at the backing beam
for our form where we've created our catalog items
in the past.
You'll notice that on the backing beam
there is this add item method.
And while we're here, I'm just going to do a little bit
of clean up, but this method is actually invoked
when we submit the form
and it's used to build a new catalog item object.
And that item object is bound to a field
on this backing beam named item.
So I'm just going to pass that in to EJB.
The catalog item will be created.
And then we're going to go ahead
and use our inventory service to create the inventory
for that item.
So here you can see our call to the inventory service,
and we can take a look at the implementation
for that inventory service.
We're looking at the remote inventory service here.
And what you can see is that we're backing it using a map.
So that's not really what we want to do.
So I'm going to go ahead and remove all of that code.
And we're going to provide a different implementation here.
So let's give ourselves some space.
And what we're going to do is use the JAX-RS client
to make a call against
the inventory item resource
on our JAX-RS API that we stood up.
So in order to get a JAX-RS client,
we can use a client builder object.
And it has a factory method named new client.
And that's how we get an instance of it.
And then the next thing we need to think about is
where do we want to send our HTTP traffic?
So we're going to build an API URL.
And this is basically going to be the base URL
for our API.
You remember that it was local host port 8080.
And then hsports-catalog-jax.
And then the base API URL was
hsports/api.
Okay, so we got our endpoint, or at least the base of it,
established, and then what we do with the client
is we set up a target.
So I'm going to provide that URL as the base target
that we'd like to access.
And then we can further extend
that URL by adding a path to it.
And we want to target here the inventory items resource.
So by using the path method, that will be concatenated
to our API URL.
Next, we're going to go ahead, we build the request
and we indicate that it's going to be a post.
And the post needs us to provide an entity.
And what I'm going to do to make this easier to see,
I'll put this on two lines.
Actually three lines.
And then I'm going to use the entity object,
which has a static JSON method.
And what this allows us to do is pass in an object
and it's just going to serialize it into JSON.
So we can then start to use our new
inventory item constructor.
And the first argument is going to be null
because we're now relying upon our JPA provider
to generate our surrogate key.
The second item will be our catalog item ID.
Then we pass in the name and then quantity.
I'm going to make a new random integer for the quantity.
And we'll just cast that over to a long.
Okay, and there we have our call built
to the rest API.
Now that rest API is going to return a response
and we can assign that to a response object.
Just be careful when selecting the response type
that you pick the JAX-RS type.
Okay.
And then from here, we're just going to go ahead
and log some of the information we get from the response.
There we get the status code.
And then we're also going to go ahead and get a location
that's sent back.
And that location has a path that points
to our newly created resource.
Okay, so all of that's in place.
Let's check our application.
I'm going to remove the existing one.
And then we'll start things up.
Okay, there we see our application started.
Let's make sure it's out there, yep.
All right, and then we can watch the console.
So I'll just go ahead and expand that.
And then we can open a new browser window,
hit the application.
Let's go ahead we'll create some mittens.
Select an available date.
So here we're going to go ahead and post the form.
And that's going to cause the client
to call the inventory service API.
And if we take a closer look here at our console output.
You see we get the 201 status code,
indicating a resource has been created.
And then we get a path to that resource.
So that's how we can build calls to rest APIs
with the JAX-RS client.